It should be returning.
It's already going in the other direction now.
The best of all collections of any library or private individual on the subject of Cyphers and Codes, including William F. Friedman, who gave his collection to the John Marshall Library.
He didn't collect the early books like the famous and the others.
He didn't have the money on his salary working for the army.
And he told me himself, you know, he's only collecting the modern books.
That's all he could afford.
How do postcards and boys' stories, how does all this fit into your scheme?
You said there's a method in your madness.
How do postcards?
Well, I concentrated mostly on postcards with views of New York City and different boroughs and Coney Island and so on.
And I broke them down into different classifications, famous hotels, the Hotel Aston and Hotel Walden and the Astoria and so on, and streets and so forth.
So being it's a subject collection.
That should be very interesting given here, a public library.
They went right into U.S.
history, local history, and genealogy.
Alphabet, graphic art.
Absolutely.
They have a collection.
And it's really hard for us to be scouring individually to go out and find, you know, or to develop something like...
We could only do one thing or another, but David is like an adult.
He's somebody doing what we do, and he's helping.
And he's got a specialty.
And he researches it.
He finds out more about it, and then he knows what to buy.
In relation to postcards, I joined a postcard club here in New York City, and I attended all the meetings, and I told the other dealers what I was looking for, and I go through their stock to figure out
interesting views in New York City.
I've got a postcard collection that you've done nuts over.
You've heard of Francis Henry Taylor, who was the head of the Metropolitan Museum of Art.
And then he came back to Worcester, which is where I was, and he died up there.
And he had 4,500 postcards.
He's all over.
Whenever he was going off to buy art in Met, he would get postcards.
I went to this auction, not even planning to buy it, but there was no interest in it.
I paid $250, less than half a penny a piece for these extraordinary postcards.
And then the woman, oh, I don't want to get into this, but they wanted to buy it for me.
I said, no, you're going to break it up.
I'm going to keep it as a collection.
And the thing is, if we're big enough, we can keep this.
I mean, it really does.
You know, what went into the stacks is the children's literature.
Well, now we've got this book that he collected.
Do you keep it as a collection, or is it dispersed throughout the rest of the collection?
Well, cryptography is a collection.
Cryptography is a collection.
Do you have a name for it?
We have a special class mark.
What was his name on it?
Dar-K-F-G-F.
Yes, Shulman Gift.
Dar-K-G-F for Shulman.
And then Shulman Cryptography Collection.
He had to create a special class mark for the collection.
He's smiling, so he likes that.
Yeah, of course, I suggested to Frank Madsen, we don't have a special class mark.
A lot of the cryptography books were classified under shorthand.
and other related subjects, espionage.
What was the classification you get?
I think it's Star KGS.
Star K for rare books, and then G for named collections, and then I think it's S for Shulman, but I'm not positive.
I'd like to know if that would help at some point.
We'll talk at some point by phone or whatever.
Definitely all together.
And then the other thing, we're exploring.
You see, we have this classification in it.
the way that Reserve Division was set up initially, American imprints, British imprints, European imprints, and then a couple of different formats, like broadsides and the like.
But everything that is printed after our sort of cutoff date goes into this overall collection called Star KF, which is everything but literature and our imprints.
It's not good enough.
We're going to have to begin to build, and we've talked a lot about this, building special collections.
So to keep material together, just
because you can't just keep fitting it into this sort of overall arching.
What's your direct phone number?
212-930-0805.
0805.
Very good.
By the way, it's such a good collection that the previous president of the New York Public Library, Gregorian Bartin.
Bartin is a strange name.
I've interviewed him for my new book.
Go ahead.
He personally wanted to look at the collection.
I gave him a tour of the collection.
And he said, wonderful.
He was so impressed.
And being that he was a professor of history, he asked me, did Cardinal Richelieu ever have anything to do under King Louis XIV with cryptography of secret code and stuff like that?
I told him about my annotated bibliography that I would look through it and find out.
And he answered his query.
Then the new president now, the clerk, he's getting an education.
We're going to happen to mention that we have a horn book.
Paul's going to love that.
The horn book.
He said, you've never heard of a horn book.
I know.
And I had to describe it to him.
He said, I would love to see it.
He's going to come down and look at the horn book.
That's great.
So let's...
We've got a lot of area to cover.
We've got to talk about your OED stuff.
We've got to talk about... Oh, yeah.
I haven't even gotten to that subject.
That reminds me of connection with OED.
Morganita Lasky, she is the foremost contributor to the supplement.
She has sent in about a hundred thousand slips, citations.
She's a graduate of Oxford.
Why don't you go sit in that chair so I can get you going this way.
Yeah.
Keep talking.
Let me take a couple of shots.
What are you talking about with the OED?
Yeah.
Marlonita Lasky, one of the foremost contributors to the supplement of the Oxford English Dictionary, had heard about me, one of their editors, and she was interested in meeting me.
Mm-hmm.
So I wrote back to the editor and provided my address and phone number.
Go ahead.
I'll pick who left.
And when she came over from London on a visit to New York...
She called me up and invited me to come over to her hotel in Madison Avenue to have tea and scones with her for a visit.
And I did.
I went over.
And strangely enough, the gist of our conversation
It had nothing to do with lexicography or the dictionary.
She was interested in my Army career.
She found herself fascinating.
And all our time was spent with me telling her about my experiences in the Army, World War II.
How did you start working on the OEB?
How did you start doing the OEB?
I always had an interest in dictionaries and words and so on.
communicated with H.L.
Mencken.
He wrote me some very nice letters.
I sent in suggestions for the origin of words, Americanism is a slang.
And I wrote a couple of articles for American Speech.
And then the editor of the OED sent out a general
invitation to people who wanted to contribute to the supplement.
And I became a volunteer contributor.
They were so impressed with what I contributed that when the editor came over to New York for a visit, I showed him my file.
I had a file of a couple of thousand citations, antedating what was in the Oxford English Dictionary.
And he said,
I take all of it and pay you for it.
Wow.
Yeah.
And whatever you send in, we'll pay you for it.
How did you decide what words to go to go searching for?
Tell me some of the words.
I saw the Big Apple and taking a Brody and stuff like that.
Yeah.
Is this stuff that you get, like going through the newspapers?
How do you decide what to do?
I have a very good memory.
for the words that are entered in the Oxford English Dictionary, the earliest dates or appearances in print.
So when I read different books and so on, and I find a certain word, I think may have been overlooked by the Oxford English Dictionary, or seemed to be of an earlier date.
Copy it down on a slip.
Here it is.
I got it now.
Okay.
Keep talking.
Yes.
I copy down words from various books and magazines and newspapers I read, and I check them out.
OED.
If I find that they have already been recorded,
But when I find out that they haven't been recorded, those are the ones I call to their attention.
Okay.
How do you find the work?
In the OED, you're trying to find the proponents, the first use of the word.
Yeah.
So how do you go about doing that?
Well, I check with OED.
to see if they have any entry for it.
In the original OED, there was no entry.
And in the supplement, they had an entry of about, say, 1922.
It's over here, so you can keep talking.
I like the way you're sitting like that.
Go ahead, keep talking.
It's picking you up.
That's great.
So, in the course of my reading, I found in a book of poems by some writer in the early 1900s, where the writer used the expression, a big apple.
compare New York with a big apple that spreads its roots everywhere, and so on.
So I copied that, sent it in, the OED.
Now in the case of a slang expression like, it's a doozy.
That's one of yours?
Yeah.
It wasn't entered in OED, in the original, or in the supplement.
So...
I sent that in, and I asked them, why did they overlook it?
Why wasn't it entered?
They said, well, we were waiting for your citation.
Can you name a few others that come to mind?
Doozy, can you think of a few others?
Yeah.
And I'll look them all up.
I'll check them out.
Okay.
Because I have an OED at home.
Good.
Do you have a second edition?
I do, with all the supplements.
Yeah, that includes supplements.
Doozy, Brody, Big Apple.
What are some of the others?
Bagels and lox.
They weren't in?
I sent them the citation.
Bagels and lox were not in the OED?
What's the provenance of those words?
How old are they?
I'm Yiddish.
Bagels and lox is a favorite part of that.
I know what it is, but I'm shocked that it wouldn't be in the OED.
What was the earliest reference you could find for it?
On hand.
For Bagel itself.
It was traced all the way back to Poland in the 17th century.
And you found references for it?
Yeah.
But I wasn't the one.
There were others who made a study.
Professor David Gold, who was a great linguist,
and a professor of syllabic languages and so on at the University of Tel Aviv.
He's a consultant for dictionaries.
He made a study of Bevel, and he traced it all the way back to Poland.
So it's well-known, but the dictionary itself, you know, actually hadn't recorded it.
There were many common words.
Was that kind of a hobby of yours, or did you take this very seriously?
Tell me about after the war, the kind of work that you did.
How did you make a living?
I worked for newspapers.
I continued to work for promotion.
I went to work for the Hearst Corporation.
As a present person?
As a kind of promotion guy.
The promotion department.
All their syndicated newspapers throughout the country.
And so what were the years that you left them?
Under Bob Levitt.
He was their publisher.
and had a promotion for the Hearst Publications.
I love these pictures.
I just love this room.
Yeah.
I usually come down with a beautiful contacts camera.
My wife called me.
She said, what's your camera?
So I brought one of these.
These are supposed to be excellent at one-time use.
They only use it once, but it's got a good lens and excellent film.
Because I like to have a photographic record of everybody you're talking about.
That's good.
I have a tape, I have a photographic record.
So you were working for Hearst.
How many years were you working with them?
When did you retire?
Well, I was semi-retired.
What happened?
I can bring this in a little bit.
After I finish work, we're getting stuff for you.
All right, you want to come in here?
No, no, if it's ready, because we're going to talk.
We're going to keep on talking.
Okay, Jenny, just send your name once more.
Oh, it's Jennifer Lee.
Okay.
Good luck.
Thanks.
Thanks so much for everything.
Tell me a little bit while we're waiting for David about his collection.
Well, he's so delightful, you know, and he loves coming in.
And he's been working on various projects.
They haven't been so much in the espionage of late, but... That's funny.
Talking about dinner.
Oh, yeah.
They're mostly 20th century books, and they run where they start to be modern books around the corner, so it's about maybe 10, 12 units of shelving.
And there are a few dozen of older items.
We found it.
I hadn't seen this yet.
So tell me what we're looking at here, David.
Oh, wow.
This is not printed.
It's all manuscripts.
Wow.
And the original is in Yale University.
Can I get this?
This is a bibliographic reference to that.
Yes.
Okay, sure.
Instead of trying to trust my hand.
In the Red Book Division at Yale University, I went up there many years ago, about 30 years ago, and they showed me the original printed copy, and we compared it.
Identical.
Wow.
The manuscript?
This is a manuscript?
It's a manuscript.
What's the date on this?
1660.
Could you do that?
What?
I'm going to get a Xerox in this description.
They won't describe.
Oh, yeah, thank you.
I wrote that description, sorry.
Oh, okay.
I know the rule.
1660?
Why don't you tell me about the book?
What's important about this book?
What's important?
It's a unique copy as far as I know.
This is the manuscript probably for the printer.
Then printed the book.
And the content of the book is all on cryptography.
Different kinds of alphabets, secret writing from the 16th and 17th century game.
All kinds of alphabets from various languages.
It's a treatise on the language of strangers.
Strange languages.
A treatise of strange languages.
And their alphabet.
And does it have the French title here, too?
Oh, yeah.
Look at the colophon.
Isn't that beautiful?
Wow, that's extraordinary.
And where did you find this book?
Do you remember where you found this book?
I don't remember.
There were so many different books of interest, and you have to go by the annotation, whatever I wrote.
Well, is this who you bought it from?
Oh, yeah.
See, I saved the citations from the catalogs.
I picked this up through a catalog.
In 1967, the dealer was Francois Chaminade.
So you got it out of a catalog in Paris, right?
Yeah.
And it said, original edition.
Contains chapters of secret writing.
Good example.
Terrific example.
What's the most you ever painted?
Oh, I paid $200 for the Tristavius.
He got his books at a recent time.
That went for $3,000 in the South.
He was the second copy.
A year later, they had another copy.
It went for the book.
And what was the name of the book again?
Tristavius.
Polygraphia.
Polygraphiae.
Sex.
Libri.
And six books.
401.
Printed book.
1518.
The price printed book.
It's all in chronological order.
Here.
Yale University Library has a copy, a printed copy, British Museum Library, and Bibliothek National.
But this is the manuscript, probably the original, in a beautiful, upright Roman hand, in Schumann's collection.
Based chiefly on Virginia's book, the author was the son of Guillaume Cortet, poet and author of a book of riddles in which the name of Francois also appears.
You found these books mostly by plugging around going to, and I have read a lot of catalogs on the mailing list of various book dealers in England, France, Italy.
Did you think you were obsessed by this?
Is this an obsession that you were driven by?
No.
Of course, an obsession would preclude any other subject that I may have in my mind.
In other words, this doesn't interfere with my interest in lexicography, words, linguistics, languages.
Et cetera.
And doesn't interfere with other interests I have, like in sports.
I was a very good tennis player.
I played in a national championship in mixed doubles.
Okay.
Yeah, up in Longwood, Massachusetts.
Uh-huh.
I know that.
Yeah, I'd be indoors.
At Longwood, they were held in the national... That's outside of Brooklyn.
Yeah.
Called the national championship.
And when was that?
For mixed doubles.
Oh, it comes back about 20 years ago.
Yeah, in the 1950s.
Well, I did.
I teamed up with this woman who was national handball champion.
She was a very good athlete.
And she took up tennis.
She was pretty good at that.
So she asked me to be her partner for mixed doubles.
And you said you won?
You won?
She didn't win the title, no.
But you competed.
We competed.
And you were seated.
We're in the draw.
That's great.
God, there's so many things to talk to you about.
I'm going to slip away just briefly, and I'll be back.
And Miriam has the other books for you.
Okay, good job.
And whatever else you need.
Thanks.
Okay.
You have some other books?
Yeah.
Oh, yeah.
He was going to copy some of these things for me, too.
I guess of all the different books he talks about because I might want to make reference to them.
Well, that's quite a book.
So tell me about this one.
Oh, look at the paper.
That's gorgeous, that handmade.
Oh, that's the polygraphia.
That's quite wonderful.
So tell me a little bit about it, what we're looking at.
Tell me what we're looking at here.
We're looking at a book by Athanasius Karcher.
who belong to the Jesuit Society.
The title of it is Polygraphia.
Polygraphia, Nova, New and Universal.
Did you use these books in your research?
Did you, did you, when you got the, were you collecting or were you actually trying to?
I actually read them and studying them.
Go back to the second page, you know.
Thanks.
I had that.
It was too good.
I got a picture of you, too.
Just right like that.
Yeah, it's good.
Whoa.
Excellent.
So tell me how this book helped you in your work.
Did you know about this book?
Yes, I knew about this book.
It took me a long time to find a captain for sale.
It looked like a very elegant book.
What kind of person was this book produced for?
It appears to be a very elegant and produced book.
Most mean by Lillity, a handmade paper for scholars.
And you say this book is probably the most expensive book you bought?
No.
I was lucky on this one.
I got this, I think, for about $50.
Did they pay $50 for this?
Yeah.
Wow.
Yeah, that's about 30 years ago.
It doesn't matter.
That's great.
It's a good price.
It's gorgeous.
That chart is just wonderful.
How many different languages do you read?
I still read about a half a dozen different languages.
Is it necessary in that kind of work?
It's just about the photography, yes.
And then, of course, you were a Scrabble champion as well.
Yeah, but I knew so much about words.
What is the fascination of words for you?
The fascination of the language?
Well, to be literate, you have to know all about words.
intellectual and so on you've got to have a good vocabulary the language you use is very important to your ability to communicate with other people as well as with yourself so man is very blessed to have the gift of language so what are the languages that you have you have french you have latin spanish german
Italian, I would imagine.
Yeah, Italian, the romance line.
It is.
I'd like to comment on the library, what this library has meant to you.
This clearly is your home.
Yeah, this is a home away from home.
You spent time in here easily over the last 50, 60 years, is that right?
At what point did you realize that this place was a home home?
Right from the start.
I wasn't present when they opened the library in 1911.
I was born a year later.
That was too late.
I missed the opening.
President Tapp came and dedicated the library.
So where have you done most of your work?
In that room all over?
Outside.
Most of my work.
There are many, many books, millions of books in the stacks that they can't have here in the rare books.
And the course of my work, I have to consult a lot of contemporary books and early printed books and miscellaneous books.
And you were mentioning also your mentor was the fellow from Whitley's Believe It or Not.
Norbert, Norbert Pearl Rock.
He had a command of several languages, and that's why Ripley hired him to do research and turn up all kinds of amazing stories and facts.
And he spent every day here at the library.
He looked like the number one leader of his time.
And so you got to know him here?
Yeah.
And the Times described him as a mentor of yours.
Is that a fair assessment?
Well, in a very loose sense.
He didn't really teach me anything that I didn't already know.
Just I was curious as to how he went about digging up the material for Ripley, believe it or not.
And he showed me those books that he carried with him, and jotted down things from different books that he consulted.
And his work was at random.
I said, well, what books do you decide to consult?
He said, I take the cart catalog.
At that time, he didn't have the printed catalog, cart catalog.
I go through that, and when I see an item listed that I think may be of some interest, I call for it.
So he would always call for about a dozen or so books at a time at the window.
He'd carry them to the table and go through them.
So at random, you know, it was like a random thing.
He'd find all kinds of interesting things.
How do you feel when you hear that libraries of the future are all going to be electronic?
Do you believe that?
What do you think about that?
I think that has its merits and it has its setbacks.
There are a lot of things that electronically cannot be recorded.
There's no end to printing.
Printing goes on and on.
And the computers, whatever, can't keep up with anything that's being printed.
especially newspapers every day and get a new edition.
And you take my own collection that hasn't even been entered in the card catalog or the computers from the New York Public Library as yet.
They've only, you know, entered about half a dozen items.
What are they considered most important, like the Trefavius
maybe the future i mean in terms of um getting access to resources so like for instance the whole oed is online now it's on yeah cd run i would say they reduced the price now but now it's cheaper i would say for things like that it's almost it almost makes sense to go electronic because it's because you're updating it so frequently they're under words entering the language every day literally and this way they can almost enter them at will
Yeah, because they're going to have a new printout now.
For the great edition, they're working on it.
I didn't think they were going to print anymore.
No, no, no.
They have a computer database.
Is that right?
Everything that's being sent in can be recorded in their computer, and they can print it out.
You have a proofreader.
You had a comment from you the other day about the Simon Winchester book, The Professor and the Madman.
Yeah.
If he tried to be a contributor today and find earlier citations, as I have been, he would be madder than a madman.
Because present-day OED is a collective effort of everything that's been in the past.
of all their contributors.
So he's only one person, and he has one contributor.
I feel the same way about it, too.
I don't know why other people contribute.
I just go ahead and contribute when I see it.
What happens?
Do they contact you about a particular word, or do you find one and submit it to them?
Well, I discourage them from contacting me on any particular word, but they have done it.
Like the editor one time wrote to me, asked me, what's the difference between a forkball and a
A split-finger ball.
A split-finger fastball.
Well, being that he's over in Oxford, they go in for cricket.
They don't know anything about baseball.
It has to be the same thing as a forkball.
Pitcher throws in baseball.
It's the same as a split-finger ball.
A split-finger fastball, I think they call it.
No, but is there a split-finger?
A split-finger, just a split-finger ball.
But you had to research that to find that out.
How did you know that?
I knew that.
We know everything about baseball here.
That's our national past.
Of course, yeah.
I know hardly anything about cricket.
If he taught me about cricket, it should hold them well.
I'd love for you to name a few more words that you worked on.
You gave me a few.
I'd love about ten.
The bagels and locks, which I really like.
So were they done separately, or as one?
Were bagel and locks separately?
Separately, yeah.
So that would be, that's a separate, those are some separate words.
The Great White Way, which is a nickname for Broadway.
That's yours?
Yeah.
I found that.
It was named after the advertising neon signs.
Times Square.
Times Square is another one?
No, Times Square.
That's the Great White Way, Broadway, Times Square.
Fiasco section.
It was named after Snowstorm.
Can you take a one or two words?
By a theatrical writer or critic for a New York newspaper at the time.
He called.
He looked out the window.
He saw all that snow had accumulated on Broadway, and there was a strike of the sanitation department.
So he called the Great White Way.
I've got a question for you.
I don't know the answer, and I'm dying to find out.
How does the tradition of lions in front of libraries start?
What makes the lion... That's her department, or his department.
Do you have an answer for that?
How does the tradition of the lion...
That's just Fifth Avenue of all libraries.
I mean, Boston Public Library has two lions inside.
They've got lions.
Probably just St.
Charles, right?
Yeah.
I mean, you think it's the St.
Jerome thing?
I think it could be Jerome with the lion.
Well, no.
How fancy you're entitled to be depending on your rank in society.
A nobleman could put lions at the end of the drive leading into his property or house.
No one less than that.
You're going back now to medieval times?
I think it was more of a renaissance fashion.
If you want to say medieval, you're talking about heraldry.
right that's when you see them appearing i don't know why i can do it associated with spanish but you see two lions out in front maybe even supporting a shield you could have a family coat of arms on but the lions themselves are with part of that signal of social status right and then of course as that
custom retreats into the past, and people forget what they're for, they do remember that lions are supposed to be a good man, like their status associated with lions.
So then you see them appear in front of them.
What would this be a thousand years ago?
It would have to be a nobleman's palace, right?
I doubt that it was a public library once they were going to go back to Rome, maybe.
I've been trying to find some, I've been researching this for chapter in his book.
Oh, no, I'm not giving a very good explanation.
I am right.
You can get a genealogy people down the other end.
Or at the information test.
I have some people there.
No, they're not going to know.
I mean, believe me, I've tried already.
I know it's patience and fortitude.
I've even been toying with the idea— Oh, you mean these particularly?
No, no, lions in general.
But I mean, but— Well, they were part of the stories of noblemen.
But why libraries?
But why libraries in particular?
And I'm wondering if it has anything to do with the St.
Jerome tradition.
Why, at the end of the driveway of some nouveau riche slab up in Westchester, he's got, and I can show you, houses where they, people, somebody builds up in Greenwich, there's a phony trianon built by a rich man who just, he doesn't understand it, but he knows that it's a fancy building, I don't know, as well.
Somebody else might do an imitation, a setting plantation, and there's, I see cast cement linens in front of some driveways.
And there's one interesting guy I've never met who has a pair of sphinxes at the end of this driveway.
Only they are copies of sphinxes from Versailles, the heads of 18th century century.
I think that this library...
is copying the British Library.
That's right.
Right.
And then you may say, why does the British Library do it?
Well, see, they have a double valid reason.
One is the association with nobility and strength.
But the lion is... It's the British Lion.
So you could say what they're doing.
Well, it's very... The lion is one of our supporters.
I think it's the British or the lion as a symbol of Britain.
You know, I read someplace that
I never knew that libraries had a patron saint, but St.
Jerome is the patron saint of libraries.
I disagree with that.
I mean, it could be wrong.
St.
Jerome is certainly the patron of a lot of kinds of bookwear, but I wouldn't put him in for libraries.
Jerome, of course, translated and re-edited the Bible.
He was no friend.
of arts people.
He was very critical of illuminated manuscripts and gorgeous blinds.
As a matter of fact, there are a number of quotes from him against doing that.
Translating, transcribing, copying and disseminating the text, that was good.
But he said that parchments are dyed purple and bindings are covered with
while Christ lies at the door and may give a plea.
So that was what he preached against it.
Not to say I don't admire St.
Jerome.
Now, my candidate for patron of libraries is Roswitha, a German abbot of St.
Roswitha.
So she actually established a monastic library.
I'm here at the library.
I'm not sure yet.
I may be going back tomorrow.
I'll be here tomorrow, but if you want us to look it up, that's why we have the lines here.
I could go down to the architecture office.
I'd come right for that.
I'd stick around.
Yeah, I'm sure they might have it.
Because they have the blueprints and everything on the opening of the library.
Why did this library choose to have it?
Oh, by the way, they have that exhibit there.
Have you seen it on second floor?
I was taking notes on it, yeah.
Don't bother to do that.
I think I've got to go back a lot deeper in time.
I mean, you're not asking why this particular library has it.
You're saying, why have it now?
Because I think the short answer is, yeah, we copied the British Library.
I think so, yeah.
I don't... And I think that the answer for the British Library is, Miriam, they've kind of...
easy for them to do lions.
There's lions everywhere in all kinds of countries.
It's not just the British Library.
Well, I don't know if I'm right or not, and I can't give you... But who was the saint that you met?
Who was your candidate saint?
H-R-O-S-W-I-T-H-A.
She was a noblewoman who retired to a monastery, a nunnery.
and became the abbess there.
And she established a library and set all of her sisters to copy.
Are you going to quote him?
You'll see in my book.
And I think she wrote this because this is the 10th century.
There was actually a women's bibliophile group, I think, that was once part of the Gloria Club.
Yeah, the Rasweeda Society for that reason.
Exactly, exactly.
Were there any other books that you wanted to show me?
If it's getting late, I want to leave about 2 o'clock.
Okay, good night.
I've got an appointment downtown, too.
Shesemius.
Okay, great, thanks.
Don't get me going any longer on the subject.
Book Saints?
This is the first printed book.
This is the first of April.
I'm printing black and red, which is early for printing with color.
And tell me what the title of this book is.
Or Trithemius.
So this is it?
Polygraphiae.
So this is another copy of the book you showed me earlier, right?
Is this another copy of it?
Did you show me a polygraphy already?
Yeah, it's in a different book entirely.
Okay.
This is a polygraphy.
We read sex.
Okay.
Six books.
This is the woodcut, the famous woodcut.
That's magnificent.
Shows the author.
This one was...
The Abbot of the Monastery.
He's famous.
He willed against... He was known as a father of bibliography.
He published the first bibliography.
Tritemius.
Tritemius, yes.
Just a second, I'll make this one a check.
So go ahead, you can keep describing that.
He was known as a father of bibliography.
of course he was the author of the bibliography of books and it's a very printed book johannes the davis and this woodcutt shows him presenting a copy of his book to the emperor that time he was surrounded by other
people from the monastery.
And what's the year on this?
1518.
And it was published where?
It was published in Basel, Switzerland.
Excellent.
These are various alphabets, and also numerical.
uh code where did you get this book for booksellers yeah there's your coliform right there right there that's wonderful look at how beautiful it's yeah it survived is there any chance um we're going to get a cut
And notice the initial letters.
Uh-huh.
Special woodcuts.
Mm-hmm.
Heading each chapter is a gorgeous book.
Okay.
You know, I can call you.
Why don't you give me your address so I can send you the high-pepper book?
Yeah.
It's 425.
Mm-hmm.
Ovington, O-V-I-N-G, Ovington Avenue, Brooklyn, 11209.
Give me your phone number again, 718.
718-238-8141.
And you like to be called at 5 o'clock?
Not 5 o'clock, that's when we have our dinner.
Okay.
I'd say between 4 and 4.30.
And after dinner, between 6 and 9 o'clock.
Okay.
Good.
Because I'll probably want to go over a few times a few hours to make sure I have a break, you know.
In fact, you can come down there and pay me the visit you want, and you can be my guest at dinner in the dining hall.
Well, that'd be nice.
Yeah.
You should let me know when you're in town.
Sure.
But in the meantime, I want to send you a copy of the hardcover, and if you'd like, I'd inscribe it to you in the meantime.
Well, you can bring it with you the next time you come in.
Well, let me mail it.
In the near future.
That's good.
Yeah, let me mail this to you so you can.
Now, this is a bibliography of your collection?
Of my collection and all the other books that aren't in my collection.
That's an annotated bibliography of cryptography.
This is your book.
1976.
Who published this?
Garland?
Garland Publishing Company.
They specialize in bibliography.
Annotated bibliography of cryptography.
That's David Woodcock.
Here's the Woodcock.
Maybe you'll see your middle initial.
No, he's middle initial.
That's Garland.
Yeah.
1976.
There's another David Shulman.
He's been writing books about India.
Finance.
I did a search, and a lot of David Shulmans show up in finance.
Yeah, in finance.
In this particular David Shulman, he has no middle initial.
He offers several books devoted to Hindu literature, folklore, and so on.
He's the winner of an Arthur Foundation Prize.
If I could get this stuff, it would really help me.
Oh, okay.
And Miriam just left to do the other stuff.
Oh, good.
Just so I want to come to write a book.
The Duzzi is based on the shortening of Duesenberg, the expensive car of the 1920s.
a luxury automobile.
I found, before 1920, around 1903, the Duesenberg was just a twinkle in an inventor's eye later on.
In 1903, the doozy was an expression that was being used for the same as, it's a daisy.
I consider that doozy as just an alteration or a corruption.
Have you submitted that?
Is that in now?
Now, you see, doo-wop, they got that, and doozy should be in here.
They omitted it.
So now it's going to be in there.
It's in their computer for the next edition.
When I asked them why had they overlooked it, the editor, John Simpson, wrote to me saying, we were waiting for your citation.
And then they have blind spots.
Something that happens.
At one time, the word carefree was in no dictionary whatsoever.
Carefree.
Yeah.
You know another one I've read?
Scrubwoman, likewise.
It was charwoman that they visited had ignored scrubber.
And snowman was not anything.
Is that one that you put in?
Snowman?
I called it to their attention in a letter to the New York Times.
That's printed.
How about, I understand a word that is very recent as seafood.
That's an Americanism, seafood.
Seafood.
Yeah, that's a fairly recent word, isn't it?
It could be one word, it could be two words.
It could be a compound, it could be hyphenated.
We're trying to see.
But that's, I mean, we're talking about fish, but it's, you know, obviously they came up with seafood.
Sea.
Sea elephants.
They do have one word.
But they say, look at that.
1836.
So that's the earliest you can, so that guy goes back.
They have fun.
Yeah, they've got it.
Yeah, okay, good.
But it's a U.S.
word.